Charles K. Sorensen, MTA

Python Developer

3689 Parrish Avenue

Victoria, TX 77901

830-994-8344

charlesksorensen@gmail.com

linkedin.com/in/charlessorensen

 

Summary

 

Motivated PCPP1 and MTA-certified Python developer and professional scrum master with 6+ years of experience. Inclined to bring effectiveness to TechNo’s front-end development. Driven by passion and innovation, designed and introduced a new and IAC-award-worthy feature to the MailSent tool. Highly skilled in Python coding and scripting, Django framework, and communication.

 

Experience

 

Python Developer

PyMe, Victoria, TX

March 2015-present

Handled programming tasks for and maintained 7 internal websites with a high success rate (97%) in product update deployment.
Worked on high-impact projects, e.g., content aggregator and expense tracker, delivering solutions with lower than 20% code churn.
Developed a marketing lead MySQL database, collecting, categorizing, and filtering leads from various stakeholders, i.e., www, social media channels, or newsletters.
Led sprint planning meetings and divided tasks between a 15-person project team.
Tutored at three high schools every year, teaching young kids how to code in Python.
Key achievement: Designed a new feature for the company’s email marketing tool (MailSent) in 7 Active Days, contributing to the marketing department’s win in the IAC award competition in the Best Email Message Campaign category.

 

Data Scientist

PyMe, Victoria, TX

April 2012-February 2015

Automated and optimized collecting data using SQL, reaching over a 35% system’s response time boost.
Collaborated cross-departmentally on RPA to streamline issue management and migrate the current environments to the cloud, reducing the investment risk by 48%.
 

Education

 

2011 M.S. in Engineering

University of Texas, Austin, TX

 

Skills

 

Python, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, SQL
ORM libraries
Web frameworks: Django
MVC and MVT Architecture
Design skills
Problem-solving skills
Communication skills
Data visualization
Agile frameworks
 

Courses and Certificates

 

PCPP1 – Certified Professional in Python
MTA 98-381 – Microsoft Technical Associate
PSM II Assessment Certificate – Professional Scrum Master
 

Conferences

 

PyCon, every-year attendee since 2018
DjangoCon, 2020